---
layout: post
title: "Troubleshooting Linux Server Network Issues"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-06-16-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-06-16-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-06-16-1.png
---

Linux based networks can be a great way to manage your online resources with high levels of security, technical flexibility and innovative features. Linux servers are widely used in corporate networks, and it is likely that someone in the office will have more than enough experience managing these types of systems. Despite all the positive aspects offered by Linux, it is not an exempt from networking issues that may arise during the day to day operation of the server and its related services. This blog post will explore all the possibilities when troubleshooting Linux server network issues.

# Common Problems

This section, will focus on the most common network issues faced by Linux servers such as connection problems, slowing down issues, and unresponsive systems. While it is likely that each of these issues will have its own solution, finding the source of the issue or the combination of factors responsible for each may require some quick diagnosis.

## Connection Issues 

One of the most common, yet widely misunderstood problems that cause Linux server network issues is connectivity. It is possible that DNS errors can hinder your connection to and from the outside world. To diagnose the underlying issue with our network connection we can use a number of different tools and techniques.

### Traceroute 

Traceroute is an excellent network diagnostic tool. It is generally available on most Unix or Linux distributions, and can be used to trace different traffic routes in our network. Its output will indicate whether our packets are going directly from our server or if it is taking a circuitous route traveling through a network node before reaching its intended target. As this extra node incurs extra latency we can conclude that the problem lies there and take action about it. 

We can check for traceroute for the following command.

```bash
$ traceroute <destination_url>
```

### NS Lookup

DNS lookup is  an essential tool when dealing with network issues. It is a process that helps us understand how our network resolves the names of certain websites/locations into corresponding IP addresses. A DNS lookup mainly returns the IP address information corresponding to any DNS query that we had generated. 

We can check for DNS lookup for the following command.

```bash
$ dig <url>
```

## Slowdowns

If your Linux server's performance is slowing down or erratic, there are many possible factors to consider, starting from server resources, network infrastructure or there might what many network services might be under high demand. 

### Server Resources

We can quickly diagnose the server resources issues by running several tools such as `top` and `vmstat`.

`top` gives us information about system resources such as the amount of available memory or the amount of number of active/running processes.

We can check for the `top` for the following command.

```bash
$ top
```

`vmstat` allows us to diagnose our system's resources usage in resourcing, and waits associated with RAM, CPU utilization and I/O.

We can check for `vmstat` of the following command.

```bash
$ vmstat
```

### Network Infrastructure

Network reductions are usually the root cause of slowdowns that occur. Common networking features that use the router speed per second can degrade ones linux server speeds especially when the user is located far from the server. 

A handy tool to verify such an issue is called `iperf`, This utility can be used to measure typical file transfer speeds over TCP/IP using the ICMP protocol, giving us info on the speed of the connection.

We can check for `iperf` command for the following command.

```
$ iperf -c <ip> -v
```

## Server Unresponsiveness

Often times, the performance of a server can become sluggish or be completely unresponsive due to unexpected factors such as faulty hardware and software issues or lost connections. 

Faulty hardware and software could possibly be the source of such a problem and a good approach to troubleshooting this is by understanding what type of protocol was used when connecting to the server. This can be a hugely valuable information source as it can help take the right steps needed to repair the server to a fully functional level.

Fortunately, the `/var/log/syslog` and its corresponding sub-directories can provide us with the information needed to understand the source of the issue by referring to details under logs such as `dmesg`, `auth`, or `cron` which will contain errors relating to the kernel and services used on the server.

We can check for kernel events using the following command 

```
$ cat /var/log/syslog 
````

Another log file that can be of use is `/var/log/messages` which shows us log messages related to the system. We can check the logs using the following command

```
$ cat /var/log/messages
```

# Conclusion

Troubleshooting Linux server network issues don't have to be intimidating; all you need to do is to be prepared, organized, and understanding of the various tools and protocols offered by the underlying technology. Since Linux Servers can have many users referring to it, understanding the complexity of the network and rooting out solutions become timesavers in the long run. 

Each of the server network issues that together comprise this article offer a different approach to resolving them. Traceroute, NS lookup, and vmstat are all useful tools in isolating connectivity issues, while the log files prbe, and iperf can help identify server server resources and network infrastructure problems respectively. Together, they can be used to quickly identify and repair any network issues and ensure that the stability of your server is maintained. 