---
layout: post
title: "Getting Started with VMWare Cloud: What to Expect"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-08-05-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-08-05-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-08-05-1.png
---



VMWare cloud (VMC) is the next step up in cloud computing technology. It is a virtualized version of private cloud systems that can, for example, be used to create multiple virtual networks and servers. VMC is an on-premise environment, which includes both software and hardware components, allowing businesses to enjoy the benefits of the cloud without sacrificing the performance or security of traditional on-premises systems. With VMC, businesses can create a secure and flexible environment for virtual applications, systems, and services.

In this blog post, we’ll go over what to expect when getting started with VMWare Cloud (VMC). We’ll explain the general components of the platform and the different deployment options available, as well as give recommendations on key steps to take to set up your own VMC environment. 

## Components of VMWare Cloud
VMC is composed of four main components:

- **The vCenter Server:** This is the central management console, where you can control all aspects of the VMC environment, such as creating and managing virtual machines and networks. 

- **vSphere Client:** This is a graphical user interface (GUI) allows for users to manage virtual machines and applications within the VMC environment. 

- **Storage Area Network (SAN):** This is the storage component of the cloud and can comprise of multiple storage types including hard drives, SSDs, and tape drives. 

- **Networking:** This is the networking component and includes both physical and virtual networking configurations such as switches and routers. 

## Deployment Options
When it comes to setting up your VMC environment, there are three main deployment options available: 

- **On-Premise:** This is the most traditional deployment option, and it requires users to set up the hardware components of the VMC environment on-site. This type of deployment offers physical security and control of the hardware pieces, while still providing flexibility and scalability. 

- **Managed:** This option requires users to rent or lease the hardware components from a third-party provider. This type of deployment is useful for companies that don't have the resources or personnel to maintain their own VMC environment. 

- **Hybrid Cloud:** This type of deployment combines an on-premise setup along with the public cloud, allowing companies to create a hybrid environment that can benefit from the scalability and flexibility of the public cloud, combined with the on-site security of an on-premise setup. 

## Steps for Setting Up VMC 
Now that you know the different components and deployment options available, here are some steps you can take to get started with your VMC environment: 

1. **Planning:** Begin by evaluating your business needs, understanding which applications and services you want to virtualize, and assessing how many virtual resources will be needed to ensure that everything runs smoothly. 

2. **Design:** English out the hardware and software architecture of the system, such as how many servers and storage devices are needed. This step should also cover the networking and security requirements for the environment. 

3. **Provision:** Once the design is completed, it’s time to provision the environment with the necessary hardware and software components. 

4. **Integrate:** Once the environment is up and running, it needs to be integrated with your existing systems, such as your authentication, identity management, and user management system. 

5. **Test & Monitor:** Once everything is integrated, you need to take the time to test the environment and monitor it to ensure everything is running properly.

## Conclusion
Getting started with VMWare Cloud can seem intimidating, but with some planning, designing, and testing, it's possible. You just need to figure out your requirements, understand and choose the best deployment option, and ensure you have a plan for integrating the system with your existing systems.

By following these steps, anyone can get up and running with their own VMC environment quickly and easily.
