---
layout: post
title: "10 Google Tricks You Didn't Know About to Supercharge Your Searches"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-08-13-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-08-13-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-08-13-1.png
---




Google is the most popular search engine in the world, but the majority of people are missing out on its full potential. Did you know that by just using a few tricks and techniques, you can make your searches more effective and help you find results faster? Not only can this help you find what you’re looking for but it can also help you sift through the hordes of information on the web. 

This blog post will run through 10 Google Tricks that you can use to make your searches more powerful. 

## 1. Narrow Results with Filters

Google offers various filters that allow you to refine your searches. Appending keywords such as `site:`, `filetype:`, or `inurl:` to your queries can help you narrow results down. 

For example, if you want to find PowerPoint presentations related to a specific topic, you can append `filetype:ppt` to the query. By doing so, you will get results that are only relevant to PDF files.

Here's an example of this filter in use:

```
cloud computing filetype:ppt
```

## 2. Use OR for Alternatives

Did you know you can use `OR` to search for alternatives? If you need to find pages that contain one of several options, you can do so by connecting search terms with `OR`. 

For example, if you’re trying to locate pages related to either apples or oranges, your query should look like this: 

```
Apples OR oranges 
```

The results will contain references to either of the two terms.

## 3. Use Quotes to Find Exact Phrases

Sometimes, you need to search for an exact phrase. To get the most relevant results for that phrase, you can use quotes around the query.

For example, to find exact references to ‘software engineering’, you can run this query:

```
"software engineering" 
```

That would filter out any pages that talk about software or engineering, but don’t mention those two words together.

## 4. Exclude Words With Hyphens

If you don’t want specific words to appear in your results, you can exclude them by using a hyphen. 

For example, if you don’t need any pages about cats, your query should look like this:

```
cats -pet
```

This would filter out any pages that contain the word ‘cat’ but not the word ‘pet.

## 5. Use Asterisks for Partial Matches

Google allows you to use wildcards, denoted by the `*` character, to find partial matches. 

For example, if you’re trying to find matches that partially match ‘International * Day’, your query would look like this:

```
International * Day
```

This query would show results for any partial matches such as ‘International Women’s Day’ or ‘International Day of Peace’.

## 6. Use the Tilde ~ For Synonyms

If you want to search for synonyms, you can do so by using the `~` character.

For example, you can run a query using this syntax to find results related to either ‘happy’ or ‘cheerful’:

```
~happy ~cheerful
```

## 7. Find Definitions With Define

You can use the `define:` keyword to get information on the definition of a word or phrase. 

For example, if you want to find the definition of ‘artificial intelligence’, your query should look like this:

```
define: artificial intelligence 
```

This would return a definition of ‘artificial intelligence’ from a reliable source.

## 8. Search for Pages from a Specific Domain

Sometimes, you may need to find results only from a certain domain. To narrow the search to a specific domain, use the `site:` keyword.

For example, if you need to find references to ‘machine learning’ on the Stanford website, you could use this query:

```
machine learning site:stanford.edu 
```

This would show you pages related to ‘machine learning’ from the Stanford domain.

## 9. Search for a Specific String in the URL

If you need to find a specific string in the URL, you can use the `inurl:` keyword to narrow down your search. 

For example, if you want to search for pages that contain the word ‘design’ in the URL, you can run this query: 

```
inurl:design 
```

This would show you all pages that contain the word ‘design’ in the URL.

## 10. Search Between Dates

Finally, if you need to find web pages that were published within a certain time frame, you can use the `daterange:` keyword.

For example, to find pages related to ‘machine learning’ published between July 2018 and October 2018, you would use the following query: 

```
machine learning daterange:2018-07-01 2018-10-31 
```

By adding this keyword filter, you will get results that were published within the specified dates. 

---

That's all for this post! Hopefully you found one or two tips from this blog that will help you supercharge your Google searches. Hopefully these tips will help you find the information you need faster and easier. 

Happy searching!
