---
layout: post
title: "7 Unusual Google Tricks To Make Your Life Easier"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-08-02-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-08-02-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-08-02-1.png
---



Google is one of the most powerful tools that we use every day. It is an invaluable resource for researching, communicating, and even just entertaining yourself. But did you know that Google has a few tricks up its sleeve that can make your life easier? Here are 7 unusual Google tricks to make things easier for you!

## 1. Search By Image
Google offers a unique feature called "Search by Image" that lets you perform a reverse image search. This means that if you have an image in your possession, you can upload it to the search engine to find similar images, their sources, and even more related information. To do a reverse image search, open Google Images, click the camera icon, and then either upload an image or paste the URL of an image in the search box.

## 2. Get Local Search Results
If you're trying to find local businesses or services, Google will show you local search results that match your query. All you need to do is enter your query with the phrase "near me," such as "restaurants near me," and Google will show all the relevant results along with their locations.

## 3. Google Shortcuts
Don't want to type out long Google searches? Google offers a few shortcuts with pre-defined search terms. All you need to do is enter the term and Google will do the rest. For example, if you enter "define:" followed by a word, Google will give you the definition. Other shortcuts include searching for images with "image:" or searching for a calculator with "calculator:".

## 4. Set Timers
Google can also be used as a timer. Just enter the phrase "timer" followed by an amount of time in minutes or hours, and Google will start a timer that will count down and alert you when it finishes.

## 5. Track Packages
Tired of checking the status of your package? With Google, you can enter the package's tracking number to get all the relevant information, including its current location and estimated delivery date.

## 6. Sync Your Content
Google offers a service called Google Sync which allows you to synchronize content like contacts, calendars, and files between your devices. So if you ever need to access content from one device on another, Google Sync is a great way to make sure it's always up to date.

## 7. Set Goals
Finally, Google can help you keep track of your goals. By entering the phrase "set goal," Google will prompt you to enter your goal, the deadline, and other details. Google will then track your progress and remind you when you need to work on your goal.

Google is a powerful tool that can make your life easier in so many ways. By taking advantage of these 7 unusual Google tricks, you can make life even easier for yourself and accomplish more with less effort!
