---
layout: post
title: The Impact of Blockchain Technology on Smart Contract Automation.
cover-img: assets/img/2023-06-25-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-06-25-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-06-25-1.png
---




In recent years, blockchain technology has opened the doors for a revolutionary shift in digital collaboration. Today, businesses of all sizes can realize the potential of blockchain-enabled smart contract automation. Smart contract automation allows individuals and businesses to move business processes away from inefficient and manual processes and towards automated, self-executing contracts that reduce “time to settlement” and virtualise certain bureaucratic functions. 

The impact of blockchain technology on smart contract automation is increasingly transforming the digital business landscape. In this article, we look at the ways in which blockchain is impacting the realms of contract automation in the customer-supplier relationship. Moreover, we explore the potential applications of blockchain technology and its implications for contracts across different commercial and service-based sectors.

## What is a Smart Contract?

A smart contract is a digitally compiled and enforceable agreement between two or more parties that can be executed directly on the blockchain. They are self-executing contracts automatically enforced through blockchain-enabled code and a set of specific instruction sent along with the contract. Smart contracts can store information, execute transactions and automatically distribute funds or assets securely, with reduced environmental impact as compared to certain conventional methods.

Smart contracts could have huge implications for the legal landscape in many countries, as they are likely to be legally binding, facilitating trust between parties in the transaction by replacing the traditional paper-based agreements. Moreover, smart contracts could reduce the workload and time associated with tasks normally carried out by legal departments or entities, such as manual agreements, document proofing and identity verification between parties.

## Impact of Blockchain Technology on Smart Contract Automation

Blockchain technology is able to turn various types of assets including money, stocks, physical items and artwork into digital ones. This is possible by maintaining an indelible record of transactions on distributed ledgers, eliminating the need for any large centralised organisation to oversee transactions.

In addition, blockchain technology provides users with the ability to exchange encrypted data securely and store it safely across a distributed ledger. This allows for unique identification and authentication which eliminates the tedious process of document proofing for contract execution.

Moreover, through its self-executing coding mechanism, a smart contract can enforce certain terms and conditions among parties. This is enabled through the encryption and vast computing power of the blockchain platform. Thanks to these advancements, businesses are beginning to look at opportunities in areas like smart contract automation, where assets can be delegated to certain people in an automated manner. For instance, contracts can be written for automated purchase orders, electronic signatures and issuing instructions for payments.

These features of Blockchain technology help to reduce disputes related to authentication and verification between agreeing parties. This is significant for the legal landscape as previously mentioned, it also brings efficiency to contract automation processes as terms and conditions can be automated through coded instructions.

## Potential Use Cases for Smart Contract Automation

The implications of blockchain technology on smart contract automation are immense in the customer-supplier relationship. For instance, large-scale enterprises serving in the technology industry in countries such as China and India are at the vanguard in terms of leveraging the technology for internal workflow automation. Moreover, banks are applying the technology in areas such as trade finance, reducing paperwork and streamlining transactions.

On a smaller scale, entrepreneurs are using blockchain technology for smart contract automation in negotiating contracts with their customers. Smart contracts facilitate a digital expectation of delivery and reward services of specific goods or services, which eliminates the need for physical agreements and any related risks of late or failed payments.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, blockchain technology is providing a transformative solution for smart contract automation across industry verticals. Smart contracts can enable automated delivery between stakeholders and ensure agreements are legally binding.

Moreover, this technology eliminates the risks associated with manual paperwork and data entry, reducing the environmental footprint. As the world moves towards a more digital and connected society, the need for smart contracts is only likely to increase. We expect that this technology will become increasingly popular in the wider business community due to its efficacy as well as its potential to improve the customer-supplier relationship.
