---
layout: post
title: "The Benefits of Running Linux or UNIX as a Server Operating System"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-06-17-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-06-17-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-06-17-1.png
---

Linux and UNIX are the two major operating systems used in the majority of web applications, server workloads, and production server operations. As organizations grow and take on more workloads, they must consider what type of server operating system will best suit their needs. Both Linux and UNIX have considerable advantages over other operating systems like Windows, making them ideal for a range of server tasks.

So, why should an organization consider choosing one of these two powerhouse operating systems? We take a look at five major benefits of running Linux or UNIX as a server operating system.

##Easy to Manage

One of the main advantages to running Linux or UNIX as a server operating system is that they are very easy to manage. Their code is open source, meaning users have complete control over its underlying source code. That means they can customize the operating system to meet their specific preferences and requirements.

This level of control is beneficial when dealing with large and complex workloads. Instead of being locked down with other operating systems, Linux and UNIX offer greater flexibility to make quick changes to ensure peak performance and productivity.

##Highly Secure

The security of your server is essential for the success of any online business or website. Linux and UNIX offer unparalleled security benefits in comparison to other operating systems such as Windows.

Their architecture places heavy emphasis on security. Access privileges are delegated in a user-system based format with higher levels of security for more sensitive operations. Regular monitoring of system activity helps detect breaches before the hacker can gain any ground and disrupt the machine’s operations.

##Cheap Resource Requirement

Another significant advantage to using Linux or UNIX as a server operating system is that they require very limited resources to run effectively. They are lightweight yet powerful systems that can be run on a surprisingly diminished system requirement. This makes them ideal for organizations that might have limited budgets or limited hardware capable of handling more extensive systems like Windows.

The economy or resources associated with running Linux and UNIX systems means organizations don’t need to seek additional hardware or incur additional costs. Plus, the extent of customization offered via Linux and UNIX means organizations can further tailor their specific requirements to suit their available resources.

##Unified User Management

Linux and UNIX offer superior user management features compared to alternative operating systems. By setting up a single unified repository for user accounts, organizations can manage their user accounts from one central location. This makes password reset efforts and user role management easier to maintain.

Furthermore, organizations will have the benefit of a centralized user based system that can be used for granular access rules. This will give organizations improved control over their users’ communication across multiple systems. 

##Robust Programming Support

Having powerful server operating system capabilities is a must-have for web and software developers. Both Linux and UNIX offer robust support and stability when programming back-end technologies. They offer access to a range of programming languages. This includes JavaScript, Python, Go, Java, and more.

Moreover, Linux and UNIX offer support for additional necessary programming components such as databases and caching. Addition of potential components can be done with much ease, eliminating the need for developers to code for features from scratch.

##Conclusion 

Linux and UNIX are remarkable server operating systems offering various benefits that make them attractive options for running web applications and server workloads. These include cost savings associated with resource requirements, unified user management and higher levels of security. Additionally, the coding capabilities with Linux and UNIX offer developers a robust support system giving organizations the confidence to power complex applications. So, if you’re looking for a highly secure, easy to manage server operating system, Linux and UNIX are highly recommended.