---
layout: post
title: "Breaking Trends in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning"
cover-img: assets/img/2023-06-20-1-cover.png
thumbnail-img: assets/img/2023-06-20-1.png
share-img: assets/img/2023-06-20-1.png
---




Over the past decade, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) have gained a tremendous foothold among technology companies, academic research, and everyday applications. From chatbots to virtual agents, from facial recognition technology to natural language processing, AI/ML has enabled a plethora of innovative and creative solutions in an increasingly digital-focused world.

However, AI/ML technology also has its limitations, including data quality, bandwidth, and privacy. To overcome these challenges, researchers and industry practitioners are looking to new trends in AI/ML that will bring us closer to a more intelligent world with advanced capabilities and better outcomes. Here, we will discuss the latest developments in AI/ML, and breaking trends that will shape the future of AI/ML research and development.

## Building A Stronger AI/ML Platform

Perhaps one of the most important goals for the advancement of AI/ML technology is the development of stronger platform support. Currently, AI/ML platforms are limited by certain hardware and software restrictions, or limited by access to certain data types. To overcome these limitations, researchers and companies are developing software infrastructure to pool and climb the walls of limitation and bias. These powerful frameworks are better equipped to handle larger scale AI/ML projects, as well as handle new forms of data with greater accuracy.

Some of these recent advancements include the TensorFlow platform from Google, an open source library that enables machine learning on a large dataset, as well as the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform, which enables ML in the cloud. These platforms provide a solid basis for AI/ML IoT integration, analytics-as-a-service, trend prediction and forecasting, better automation, as well as more efficient hardware utilization.

## Integrating AI/ML with IoT

Recent advancements in both AI/ML and internet of things (IoT) technologies have resulted in a convergence of the two field. Recently, researchers and companies have been integrating AI/ML into IoT systems and devices to enable better decision making, improved automation, and predictive analytics. This could potentially lead to applications such as proactive energy optimization by predicting energy demand in industrial plants, predictive maintenance in manufacturing, as well as AI-enabled automotive networks to improve safety and reliability. 

Integrating AI/ML with IoT not only requires a strong platform but also requires tight integration between the software and hardware layers. Through this tight integration, AI/ML models can be implemented directly into edge devices or micro-controllers, allowing the devices or machines to make decisions without the need for cloud-based solutions. 

The major advantage of using this approach for AI/ML applications is that decisions can be made faster, with an improved performance due to the lack of latency as a result of offloading of the computations to the edge devices. As such, this improved performance and quick responses time can lead to improved decision making in real-time scenarios and tasks.

## Open Source AI/ML Initiatives

Open source projects are becoming increasingly important in AI/ML due to their offering of free software and models. This allows AI/ML enthusiasts and researchers to dive deeper into experimentation and tinkering without significant costs or restrictions. This makes open source initiatives ideal for developing and piloting AI/ML applications.

Recently, many research labs, companies, and private enthusiasts have started creating and releasing data sets, deep learning models, tutorials, and other source code material on open-source websites such as Github. This has led to the broader deployment and exploration of AI/ML developers, as well as encouraging more new initiatives involving the technology.

Apple’s Core ML framework and Microsoft’s Cognitive Toolkit are some of the most well-known open source initiatives in the AI/ML community, with many other projects gaining traction in this space. Furthermore, with the growing accessibility of low-cost hardware such as the Raspberry Pi, developers and experts have been able to tweak and develop more personalized AI/ML solutions that are suitable for specific use cases.

## Automated Machine Learning

Developing and tailoring AI/ML models to fit specific use cases is no easy task. To help simplify this process, researchers and industry practitioners are looking into recent advancements in Automated Machine Learning (AutoML).

AutoML is a process by which sophisticated AI/ML algorithms are used to automate the machine learning platform by taking the data, applying intelligent search algorithms to fit the data to best model, and outputting the best machine learning models with minimal manual intervention. AutoML takes the complexities of ML out of the hands of the user and provides a cost-efficient, standardized solution for model development.

This automated approach allows the user to focus on the data, generate insights, rather than muddle with the underlying ML algorithms. Microsoft Azure and AWS SageMaker, as well as Google Cloud Platform for AutoML, are some of the most notable services for AutoML available on the market.

## Transfer Learning

Transfer learning is another emerging trend in AI/ML. Transfer learning is a process in which knowledge gained in one task is translated or transferred across to a new task with the help of deep learning algorithms. This enables many models to be quickly retrained with minimal data so as to improve accuracy.

For instance, imagine a task of image classification that results in the successful training of a model for phones. With the help of transfer learning, this model can be easily transferred to another task such as facial recognition by retraining the parameters of the model on smaller datasets to build a new model with improved accuracy and reduced training time.

The feasibility of transfer learning not only saves precious time, but also results in saving precious resources such as the amount of data used, as only a small dataset is needed to improve the accuracy of the model. Tesla has been at the forefront of using transfer learning to create its Autopilot system which involves retraining models for the task of lane detection.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, AI/ML is transforming and redefining interactions between humans and machines. In the near future, advancements in platform support, integration with IoT, automated machine learning, and transfer learning software, are expected to further build and facilitate this transformation. 

Technology enthusiasts, researchers, and industry experts are working diligently to explore this potential to bring us closer to a world of smarter, more efficient automation. As companies and research laboratories come up with even more disruptive innovations and trends in this space, the AI/ML industry will continue to evolve and transform the ways in which machines interact with humans.
